**Yet Another Unnamed Diablo Inspired Roguelike**

Python | libtcod | [GitHub](https://github.com/kmonaghan/rogue) | Release [0.0.2](https://github.com/kmonaghan/rogue/releases/tag/release%2F0.0.2)

My first Sharing Saturday of a long running hobby project.

It started off as the Python2 tutorial, I then threw a lot of that out and merged in parts of Python3 tutorial. From there, I've gone my own way and grafted in interesting parts I've seen from examples here and from other Roguelikes I've found.

My drive behind this was to have a small side project that I could pick away at when travelling (in the Before Times, I was on long haul flights twice a month). Inspiration wise, I'd like something that has the intensity of *Diablo* (I like hitting things with sticks in games) with some optional side quests and interesting items and effects.

This subreddit has been fantastic - a lovely little community with lots of great content. I definitely wouldn't have gotten to the stage I am at now.

**Beyond the tutorial**

So what have I actually added on? At a high level (and not a complete list):

* Added some more creatures and NPCs - rats, snakes, bats, zombies, vampires, necromancers
* Added some mini-bosses e.g. a Captain that summons other NPCs of the same type.
* More weapons, armour, rings, scrolls and potions
* Wearable items can have abilities e.g. regeneration, life drain, poison, paralysis
* Damage over time effects
* A simplistic quest system
* Prefab rooms
* XP amounts vary depending on difference of level between player level and NPC level
* NPCs can gain XP themselves
* Items need to be identified before reveal their true names. Weapons have a chance of auto-identifying on use.
* Added locked doors
* NPCs have a chance of being upgraded with better stats/weapons/abilities

I've spent a lot of time messing around with various map generation algorithms and ended up with a heavily modified version of [this generator](https://whatjaysaid.wordpress.com/2016/01/15/1228/) which I've rewritten to use [NumPy](https://numpy.org/) and bolted on various updates.

It can generate out maps with just [rooms](https://imgur.com/gm3pzW3), just [caves](https://imgur.com/IFQqSZM) or a combination of [both](https://imgur.com/4TFPakx).

My Behaviour Tree AI is based on this [project on GitHub](https://github.com/madrury/roguelike) (it has also been great for giving me better ways to structure my code).

The sort of things I've been experimenting with using the behaviour trees is to have my creatures interact with each other. For example:

* Rats will eat snake eggs
* Snakes will eat rats and eventually lay an egg
* If a rat sees the player attack a rat's nest, it will attack the player (essentially causing a swarm)

**Where from here?**

I feel I have a good base to built an actual game out of at the moment. I can relatively easily add new abilities, creature, adjust/extend their behaviour and all that good stuff. So now on to At the moment, the game is terribly unbalanced so I need put some time into that. I haven't managed to get off the first level yet without debug on.

At the top of my mind are a few things to flesh out.

I have the absolute barebones of a quest system set up and I want to try and get some procedurally generated quests in there to give a little twist to the games. e.g. I intend to have a mini boss on each level and there should be some sort of quest cain around them. These chains should be entirely optional for the player and just offer a way of accelerating gearing up for the final battle (with obviously some extra risk involved).

For NPCs, I'd like to give them a little more autonomy and be the hero of their own story. At some stage I'd like to expand the, into factions that will combat each other and the player can leverage that to their advantage.

My colour scheme is *awful* \- need to make sure the contrast between the floor and entities is enough to actually see things.

How long this is all going to take, I don't know but I'm going to continue picking away at this as the urge takes me.
